College name is VCET (VIDYAVARDHINI'S COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY, VASAI ROAD). University name is Mumbai University.
Vidyavardhini means a Body committed to enhancement of Knowledge. Vidyavardhini was established as a registered society in 1970 by late Padmashri H. G. alias Bhausaheb Vartak for the noble cause of education in rural areas.

Vidyavardhini’s College of Engineering and Technology, Vasai is located on the sprawling campus of Vidyavardhini, spread over an area of 12.27 acres. It is a short, two minutes walk from Vasai Road (W) Railway Station. The college is also accessible by road from Mumbai.

Vidyavardhini Society received approval from AICTE to start the new college of Engineering & Technology with effect from July, 1994. The college is affiliated to the University of Mumbai for the four year degree program leading to the degree of Bachelor of Engineering.

Vision is to provide technologically inspiring environment for learning. To promote creativity, innovation and professional activities. To inculcate ethical and moral values. To cater personal, professional and societal needs through quality education. Mission is to be a premier institution of technical education, aiming at becoming a valuable resource for industry and society.
The name of President is Mr. Vikas Vartak.

Vidyavardhini’s College of Engineering and Technology is located in Vasai at a very short distance from Vasai Railway Station. The college is affiliated to University of Mumbai and offers Bachelor’s degree in Engineering course.



The main aim of the college is to help students grow in all the aspects. We have experienced and well qualified faculties who are always supportive to students. Well equipped lab facility of college helps students in gaining practical knowledge. College always encourages students to take part in all the extra curricular and co-curricular activities. We have our various committees for students such as Ethan, Solecthon, etc. wherein students can participate and enhance their skills. Placement and Training Cell of college enables students to have offers from world’s biggest IT as well as core companies. It also provides students with necessary prerequisite training for placements and interviews by experienced and well qualified faculties. With the help of our Placement and Training cell, many students have received offers from well known companies such as Byjus, TCS, Infosys, etc

Alumni of Vidyavardhini’s College of Engineering and Technology have excelled in their career and extended their thanks to college for their growth. Vidyavardhini’s College of Engineering and Technology is excellent choice for your career and growth.
The name of Principal is Dr. Harish Vankudre.

As a proud VCETite, our cherished motto is the ‘overall empowerment of students’ for their all-round development. Today, education means much more than merely acquiring knowledge. Our focus has been on the acquisition of knowledge and skills, building character and improving employability of our young talent. I am sure that VCET’s culture, and an inherent strong foundation that the institution has provided to our these students, has assisted them to march ahead and achieve their educational objectives ensuring a stronger and brighter future. This year on the academic front, we were able to maintain the same reputation and promised ourselves to remain consistent throughout the coming years. At the infrastructure level, we have renovated Ground and 1st Floors and renovation of other floors is in progress . In addition to that there are many more changes that surely added a class in the ambience of VCET .

I am also proud to share that this year we wholeheartedly responded to the appeal from the government to contribute to the society with open arms and in turn started a community services wing ‘UDAAN’. Throughout the year we followed the ‘Swachha Bhaarat Abhiyaan’ by maintaining personal hygiene, spreading awareness and taking extra efforts to keep our surroundings clean and green. A clothes donation campaign resulted in a great success and trusts like Anand Ashram-Vasai and Dadasaheb Tatke Ashram-Thane benefited a lot.Also our volunteers started teaching Maths and English to students from Swagat Ashram Orphanage, Malad. We also organized a street play under the title “#RespectHer” in college premises.This helped us realize our social responsibilities and the true meaning of being an ‘Indian’

An excellent track record to mention as part of this year’s achievement was the Training and Placement Committee’s performance . This year ,with the whole hearted support from Management and members of teaching and non teaching staff including the students, we were able to set a high placement record . This effort was acknowledged by the stalwarts from various companies through their positive feedbacks praising the P.A.T. committee’s hard work and sincere efforts.

The measures initiated by the management, the steps taken by college administration, the willing contribution of the teaching and non-teaching staff and the overwhelming response of students and the college activities in the past all vouch for this grand success.With such a steady stream of initiatives taken, it makes me proud to be the principal of this wonderful institution.

At this point I would like to appeal to all of you one more time to give your best and make this institution one of the best learning centers among its peers.I wish you all, good luck and greater success in your future endeavors. Proud VCETites, keep that energy and spirit alive as we write more and more of our success stories together.
Mr. Arun G. Vartak	Chairman Vidyavardhini
Mr. M.N. alias Bhausaheb Mohol	Industrialist
Mr. Vikas Vartak	Educationist
Mr. Pandurang alias Babansheth Naik	Educationist
Mr. Hasmukh Shah	Industrialist
Mr. Madhurkar B Parekh	Industrialist, Chairman of Pidilite Industries
Mr. Subash Dandekar	Industrialist, Chairman Emeritus
Director of Technical Education (M.S.)	Member
Nominee of the University	Member
Director, WRO AICTE	Member
Educationalist/industrialist (Nominated by AICTE)	Member
 Dr. Harish V. Vankudre	Principal, Member Secretary
Dr. Uday Aswalekar	Member, Staff Representative, Professor
 Dr. Archana Ekbote	Member, Staff Representative, Assistant Professor
Mr. Arvind M. Vartak	Educationist
Mr. Arun K. Naik	Educationist
Mr. Vinayak K. Naik	Industrialist
Mr. Uday P. Naik	Educationist
Mr. Govind S. Vartak	Educationist
[{'Name of the course': 'Computer Engineering', 'Intake': '180'}, {'Name of the course': 'Computer Science and Engineering (Data Science)', 'Intake': '180'}, {'Name of the course': 'Information Technology', 'Intake': '60'}, {'Name of the course': 'Artificial Intelligence and Data Science', 'Intake': '60'}, {'Name of the course': 'Mechanical Engineering', 'Intake': '60'}, {'Name of the course': 'Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering', 'Intake': '60'}, {'Name of the course': 'Civil Engineering', 'Intake': '60'}, {'Name of the course': 'Electronics Engineering (VLSI Design and Technology)', 'Intake': '60'}]
[{'Name of the course': 'Structural  Engineering', 'Intake': '24'}]
[{'Name of the course': 'Structural  Engineering', 'Intake': '24'}]
The name of Associate Professor & Head Of Department is Dr. Megha Trivedi.

The Department of Computer Engineering was established in the year 1999 to impart knowledge and develop practical skills in various areas of computer engineering. The Department offers an undergraduate program in Computer Engineering with a current intake of 180 seats. The Department was accredited by the National Board of Accreditation (NBA) from 2012–2015, reaccredited from July 2022 to June 2025, and is permanently affiliated with the University of Mumbai.



The Department has expert and well-trained human resources and state-of-the-art laboratories to impart domain-specific knowledge in the areas of programming, database management, operating systems, web development, networking, artificial intelligence, machine learning, deep learning, etc. The faculty uses various instructional pedagogies, innovative techniques, and ICT tools to enhance the teaching-learning process.



The Department motivates its students to participate in co-curricular and extra-curricular activities essential for the development and nurturing of team spirit and organizational skills. The Department is associated with the Computer Society of India (CSI). The Department has a local Code-chef chapter, Bit-Byte-Go, which provides a peer learning platform to develop coding skills. The Department also has a student-driven Android Application Development Club, a Meta-Club, and a Microsoft Learn Students Club to foster peer learning and skill development in the respective areas. The Department publishes a newsletter, an e-magazine, and a wall magazine designed by students, which encompasses articles contributed by students and faculty. Various self-learning opportunities are provided to the students through platforms such as e-Yantra Robotics Laboratory (in association with IIT Bombay), Virtual Laboratory, Infosys Springboard, Swayam, etc. The Department encourages students for various IPR activities such as publications, copyrights, and patents. The Department provides placement and higher studies support through various guidance sessions.



The Department provides various opportunities for the students to get industrial exposure through internships, guest lectures, seminars, workshops, industrial projects, product development, and activities through Memorandums of Understanding (MoU).



The Department has sound alumni connections through various social media and professional platforms.





Vision is to evolve as a center of excellence in the field of Computer Engineering to cater the industrial & societal needs. Missionis To provide quality technical education with the aid of modern resources, To inculcate creative thinking through innovative ideas and project development, To encourage Life-long learning, leadership skills, entrepreneur skills with ethical & moral values.

The composition of the PAQIC for the Department of Computer Engineering is as follows: Members:1. Dr. Megha Trivedi, Head, Department of Computer Engineering (Chairperson) 2. Mr. Anil Hingmire, Department of Computer Engineering.3. Dr. Uday Aswalekar, Head, Department of Mechanical Engineering.4. Dr. Ashish Vanmali, Associate Professor, Department of Information Technology.5. Ms. Sneha Mhatre, Department of Computer Engineering (Coordinator). Frequency Of Meeting: Minimum 2 per academic year, Roles and responsibilities: The roles and responsibilities of the PAQIC are as follows: Devise Standard Operating Procedure for assessment and evaluation of Outcome Based Education (OBE) for the program., Confirming the linkage of PO, PSO and CO with of institute and department vision, mission ., Periodic review of assessment data & identification of gaps/shortfalls in program, Recommend plan of action to bridge the gap and monitor its implementation, Review of quality/relevance of assessment processes and tools for attainment of COs, POs and PSOs, Preparing the compliance report as per requirement of accreditation activities, Periodic revision of Program Educational Objectives (PEOs), PSO etc. The PAQIC Coordinator will hold the responsibility of scheduling of meeting, recording of Minutes and compiling the action taken report
The name of Deputy HOD & Asst. Prof is Mr. Yogesh Pingle.

The Computer Science & Engineering ( Data Science)Department is established in the year 2019. Having started with a four-year undergraduate program, B. E. (CSE -DS), the department is willing to start the Post Graduate Program, M. E. CSE-DS with specializations, shortly in coming days. Data Science is a field of Scientific theories where Unstructured, Raw data is taken and moulded into meaningful information by means of Programming, Business skills, and Analytics. Many Multinational Companies across the globe are using Digital methods to Rationalize their work and Maintaining their Inventory. This Technological advancement helps in various factors like Cost Saving, Resource Saving, and Time-Saving. The concept of Data science consists of various components or sub building units that help to segregate or segment data using calculus and algorithms, it’s a time-saving process. The data can be either in structured form or unstructured form, the structured form data can be in form of a tabular form or Excel sheets, etc whereas the unstructured form of data can be Images, audios, videos, pdf files, etc DML Data Manipulation Language is used to Manipulate and Extract meaningful data out of junk. Until and unless the Data Scientists don’t have a good knowledge about statistics and Probability, they are not capable of segmenting data, it may lead to the high possibility of misinterpreting data and reaching to the incorrect conclusions. The Data Scientists have to work over the algorithms of Machine learning in day-to-day life. The regression and Classification concepts help the Data scientists to predict the valuable insights from all the Unstructured or structured form of Data available. The concept of Big Data helps to extract the main information out of all the possible raw data available. Like we can separate oil from water. The Data Scientist uses various concepts and skills to extract data like JAVA, R, Apache Spark, Hadoop Etc.
The name of Professor & Head Of Department , Dean IT Infrastructure is Dr. Thaksen Parvat.

Established in 2000, the Department of Information Technology is amongst the premier Departments of VCET. Currently, it is running Under Graduate program, B.E in Information Technology with an intake of 60 seats. The Department is accredited by National Board of Accreditation (NBA) accredited from July 2022 to June 2025 and is affiliated to University of Mumbai.

The Department of Information Technology (IT) aims at developing technical and experimental skills in students along with logical thinking so as to prepare them for competent, responsible and rewarding careers in IT profession. We strive to achieve the aim with young, dynamic and highly qualified faculty members, state of art infrastructure and Industry-Institution Interaction.The department has laboratories which are well equipped with latest configuration machines, high speed internet, Wi-Fi and legal licensed software. Modern aids such as LCD, Educational CDs make classroom teaching more interesting.

We encourage extra-curricular activities as they help in developing the student’s personality which ultimately enhances her future. It is our constant endeavor to shape personalities who will contribute positively to the world around them
The name of Associate Professor & Head Of Department is Dr. Tatwadarshi Nagarhalli.

The Department of Artificial Intelligence and Data Science was established in 2020 to provide quality education in the emerging fields of Artificial Intelligence and Data Science. Initially, the Department offered 30 seats in the first academic year for the Undergraduate Program (B.E.). However, in the following year (2021–22), the intake was doubled, and currently there are 60 seats.

The department aims to create an environment for the development and fostering of proficient artificial intelligence and data science engineers who embody professionalism and civic responsibility. The department has young, dynamic, highly qualified, and experienced faculty members, is equipped with the most modern software, and has state-of-the-art facilities for facilitating a coherent teaching-learning process.

The Department routinely organizes a variety of activities on new technological developments in collaboration with student chapters. The Department encourages students to participate in diverse IPR activities, including writing research papers, copyrighting, and patenting. The Department works to ensure that students are developed holistically by establishing outcome-based education methods and placing a regular emphasis on extracurricular and co-curricular activities like sports, cultural events, technical events, and student development programs in addition to the academic schedule.
The name of Head Of Department is Dr. Uday Aswalekar.

1. Engineering knowledge: Apply the knowledge of mathematics, science, engineering fundamentals, and an engineering specialization to the solution of complex engineering problems.

2. Problem analysis: Identify, formulate, review research literature, and analyze complex engineering problems reaching substantiated conclusions using first principles of mathematics, natural sciences, and engineering sciences.

3. Design/development of solutions: Design solutions for complex engineering problems and design system components or processes that meet the specified needs with appropriate consideration for the public health and safety, and the cultural, societal, and environmental considerations.

4. Conduct investigations of complex problems: Use research-based knowledge and research methods including design of experiments, analysis and interpretation of data, and synthesis of the information to provide valid conclusions.

5. Modern tool usage: Create, select, and apply appropriate techniques, resources, and modern engineering and IT tools including prediction and modeling to complex engineering activities with an understanding of the limitations.

6. The engineer and society: Apply reasoning informed by the contextual knowledge to assess societal, health, safety, legal and cultural issues and the consequent responsibilities relevant to the professional engineering practice.

7. Environment and sustainability: Understand the impact of the professional engineering solutions in societal and environmental contexts, and demonstrate the knowledge of, and need for sustainable development.

8. Ethics: Apply ethical principles and commit to professional ethics and responsibilities and norms of the engineering practice.

9. Individual and team work: Function effectively as an individual, and as a member or leader in diverse teams, and in multidisciplinary settings.

10. Communication: Communicate effectively on complex engineering activities with the engineering community and with society at large, such as, being able to comprehend and write effective reports and design documentation, make effective presentations, and give and receive clear instructions.

11. Project management and finance: Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the engineering and management principles and apply these to one’s own work, as a member and leader in a team, to manage projects and in multidisciplinary environments.
The name of Associate Professor & Head Of Department is Dr. Amrita Ruperee.

The Department of Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering (EXTC) was established in the year 1994 with the aim of providing state of the art education in the field of Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering. Since then, the department has evolved to match the ever-changing needs of the industry with highly qualified faculty members and staff. We provide Undergraduate program with an intake of 60 seats. Ensuring the efforts for continuous development the Department is accredited by National Board of Accreditation (NBA) from 2012- 2015, reaccredited from July 2022 to June 2025 and is permanently affiliated to University of Mumbai.

The department is equipped with the state-of-the-art laboratories with advance equipment and recent software for academic studies and research along with industry labs set up by Texas Instruments. Highly qualified and experienced faculty members (more than 15 years) are the greatest asset to the department. To make the teaching-learning process interesting and interactive the faculty uses various instructional pedagogies, innovative techniques, and ICT tools.

Department is also associated with international and national students’ chapters like IEEE and IETE. Department in association with student chapters, regularly conducts various activities on emerging technology trends. The department strives for all round development of the students by implementing Outcome Based Education systems with regular focus on extra-curricular activities like sports, cultural events, and technical events along with academic schedule.

Department has signed MOUs with 12 industries, enhancing placement support, and fostering career growth of students. The Department encourages industry projects, Internships and organizes industrial visits with the aim of providing practical learning opportunities essential for student development and allowing to experience the working environment and gain awareness of industry standards. The consistent placements in renowned national and international Companies have enabled the students to contribute their skills and knowledge globally.
The name of Head Of Department is Dr. Ajay Sudhir Radke.

VCET-ADT CELL

About us

Vidyavardhini was established as a registered society in 1970 by late Padmashri H. G. alias Bhausaheb Vartak for the noble cause of education in rural areas.

Vidyavardhini’s College of Engineering and Technology (VCET), Vasai is affiliated to University of Mumbai and approved by DTE and AICTE. The institute is accredited by NAAC and National Board of Accreditation (NBA).

VCET’s Civil Engineering Department has an Audit, Design and Testing (ADT) Cell to provide audit, design and testing services in Civil Engineering. The department has a technical work force of 11 Civil Engineers with at least Master’s degree in Civil engineering’s diverse fields and 4 assisting staff.

Vision: –

To be an eminent institute providing ‘credible, reasonable and sustainable’ solutions in civil industry.

Mission: –

M1: To provide Audit services, such as Third-party audit to Government, Semi government and Private organizations; conduct structural audit and provide retrofitting or repair solutions.

M2: To provide Design services for stable, durable, elegant, and cost-effective building design for structures, green building solutions and other sustainability solutions.

M3: To conduct Geotechnical investigation & land survey; material testing of concrete, bricks, tiles, steel, timber, chemicals and provide mix-design.

Values: –
RTL Design Engineer:RTL design engineer involves creating and implementing designs using Verilog. They must know the complete ASIC/SoC design flow and must be good at debug.

SoC Verification Engineer:A SoC verification engineer verifies a design’s functionality; this is done using a High-Level Verification Language such as System Verilog and UVM

Physical Design Engineer:A Physical Design Engineer is responsible for working with computer chips, circuits, and related components. They are in charge of analysing semiconductors, creating processor layout circuits, developing microchips

Process Integration Engineer:A process integration engineer is responsible for designing, implementing, and maintaining integrated systems and processes

Test Engineer:Test engineers in VLSI are responsible for developing and implementing test strategies and plans for ensuring the quality and reliability of ICs.

Product Validation Engineer:ensuring the product meets the required standards and specifications. they help companies minimize defects and improve product quality, ultimately leading to customer satisfaction

Technical Manager:oversees the development, implementation and maintenance of technological company systems and processes, including troubleshooting any potential issues.

Application Engineer:An AE role is the best choice for this role if he/she is communicative, a strong presenter, good at developing relationships, and good at technology,

CAD Engineer:A CAD engineer must be very conversant with the complete design flow from spec. to tape out and have mastery over EDA tool usage, scripting.

Field Application Engineer:A career as a Field Application Engineer (FAE) requires the person to be proficient in technology. FAEs are the bridge between the customers and the R&D department.

Analog/Mixed-Signal IC Designer:A mixed signal design engineer contributes to the entire life cycle of a mixed signal integrated circuit. Your duties include the design of analog cells, performing verification tasks, validation and simulation of device assembly.

FPGA Design Engineer:FPGA Design Engineers develop complex designs with advanced algorithms in HDL that will be deployed in unique, complex systems for our customers. They perform requirements development and definition, design architecture and implementation, design simulation, and hardware test and validation.

Research And Development Engineer:focuses on Training, Incubating, and Building Capacity thru an VLSI Engineering Development program.
The name of FE Coordinator is Dr. Sunayana Jadhav.

Established in June 1994 alongside the inception of the college, the department, First Year Engineering offers an array of subjects including Engineering Physics, Engineering Chemistry, Engineering Mathematics, and Business Communication & Ethics, and they collectively formed the foundational pillars.

The Undergraduate Program (UG) offers various specializations including Computer Engineering with an approved intake of 180 students, Computer Science and Engineering (Data Science) with 180 students, Information Technology with 60 students, and Artificial Intelligence and Data Science with 60 students. Additionally, there are programs in Mechanical Engineering, Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering, Civil Engineering, and Electronics Engineering (VLSI DESIGN AND TECHNOLOGY), each with an approved intake of 60 students. This diverse array of courses caters to a broad spectrum of interests and career paths within the field of engineering, ensuring students have ample opportunities to pursue their academic and professional aspirations.

Bolstered by dedicated faculty members, the department serves as a cornerstone for all engineering disciplines within the college. Faculty members actively engage in professional development through participation in refresher/orientation courses whenever feasible. Moreover, the department has hosted several seminars on diverse topics, catering to both students and staff.

Recognized for its pivotal role, the department is equipped with state-of-the-art laboratories and continues to spearhead various curricular and extracurricular initiatives. By nurturing a culture of innovation and collaboration, the department cultivates a strong foundation essential for the success of all engineering branches.

OBJECTIVES

The First Year department is dedicated to the holistic development of incoming engineering students, providing comprehensive guidance and support to ensure a smooth transition into college life. Our primary objective is to nurture students’ academic potential while instilling them with the confidence needed for a successful career in engineering. Through personalized counseling sessions and a supportive learning environment, we aim to enhance students’ cognitive abilities and problem-solving skills, empowering them to excel in their academic pursuits and professional endeavors. Our department is committed to fostering personal growth and professional development, ensuring that students emerge as well-rounded individuals equipped to tackle the challenges of the engineering profession.

INDUCTION PROGRAM

VCET has been conducting the induction program for newcomers, aiming to assist new students in adjusting and feeling comfortable in their new academic environment. This initiative also serves to foster relationships among students and faculty, as well as to introduce newcomers to a broader sense of purpose and self-discovery. The event is meticulously organized by the First Year department in collaboration with senior students. It is designed to familiarize new entrants with the institution’s environment and facilitate connections with its members. The student induction program engages with new students during their first week of college, ensuring that regular classes commence only after its completion. Participants are briefed on institutional policies, processes, practices, culture, and values, and are assigned mentor groups consisting of senior students and faculty members. Various activities are incorporated into the Induction Program, including sessions on universal human values, familiarization with the college and department, lectures and workshops by eminent individuals, creative practices, literary activities, language proficiency modules, feedback sessions, language and mathematics proficiency tests, introductions to professional chapters and clubs, and interactions with alumni.
1. The students should maintain silence in the reading room Mobiles and their mini stereo systems should be switch off.

2.All students can borrow library books, periodicals, magazines,newspapers, question papers, syllabus, project report and CD’s.

3. Books will be issued to students on weekly basis on any working day.

4. Reference books will be issued for a day for library reading on reading room ticket only.

5. Books should be returned on or before the due dates mentioned on due date slip, failing which students will be fined as follows: i . for 1-7 days Rs.2 per day. ii. for above 7 days onwards Rs. 10 per day and will be penalized iii. not returning the book for 1to 14 day he /she will not be issued the book. for the next one month; iv :not returning the book for more form 14 days he/she will not be issued the book for the semester.

6. Library books should be handled with care.

7. Any defect or missing pages in a book should be brought to the notice of Librarian; otherwise, students will be responsible for it for either repair or Replacement.
CAT 6 UTP CABLE (DLINK)

CISCO SG-300 52 PORT MANAGABLE GIGA SWITCH. (rack mountable) 3 NOS.

CASCADED.

MOUNTED IN DLINK 27 U RACK WITH PATCH PANELS.

SERVER ROOM IS ATTACHED WITH COMPUTER CENTRE.

SERVER ROOM DETAIL:

SERVER ROOM HAS ONE 42 U SERVER RACK CONTAINING 6 SERVERS.

SERVER 1.:

HP PROLIENT 360 E SERVER (8 TH GENERATION) WITH 16 GB MEMORY AND3 NOS. OF 600 GB SAS HDD WITH RAID 5(USABLE SPACE IS 1.2 TB)

SERVER OS:

WINDOWS 2012 R2 SERVER WITH HYPER-V AND ACTIVE DIRECTORY.

SERVER 3: TALLY ERP 9 SERVER WITH WINDOWS 8.1 PROFFESSIONAL

SERVER 4: SEQRITE 7.1 EPS ENTERPRISE SERVER WITH 1000 CAL.

SERVER 5: MATLAB SERVER WITH WINDOWS 7 PROFESSIONAL.
Address = K.T. Marg, Vartak College Campus, Vasai Road (W), Dist-Palghar, Vasai, Maharashtra 401202. Phone Number = 0250-233 9486, 0250 233 8234. Email Address = vcet_inbox@vcet.edu.in